# NAPSKGDataset: NAPS Knowledge Graph Dataset

**Knowledge Graph Dataset for Semantic Enrichment of Picture Description in NAPS Database**

This data description introduces a comprehensive Knowledge Graph (KG) dataset with detailed information about the relevant high-level semantics of visual stimuli used to induce emotional states stored in the Nencki Affective Picture System (NAPS) repository. The dataset contains 6,808 systematically manually assigned annotations for 1,356 NAPS pictures in 5 categories, linked to WordNet synsets and Suggested Upper Merged Ontology (SUMO) concepts presented in a tabular format. Both knowledge databases provide an extensive and supervised taxonomy glossary suitable for describing picture semantics. The annotation glossary consists of 935 WordNet and 513 SUMO entities. A description of the dataset and the specific processes used to collect, process, review, and publish the dataset as open data is also provided. This dataset is unique in that it captures complex objects, scenes, actions, and the overall context of emotion stimuli with knowledge taxonomies and in a high level of quality. It provides a valuable resource for a variety of projects investigating emotion, attention, and related phenomena. In addition, researchers can use this dataset to explore the relationship between emotions and high-level semantics or to develop data retrieval tools to generate personalized stimuli sequences. The dataset is freely available in common formats (Excel and CSV).

**Data Description**

The dataset for semantic enrichment of picture descriptions in the NAPS stimuli database with KGs is represented in a structured tabular form. It is organized into rows and columns, resembling a table, with each row describing one NAPS picture, and each cell contains specific information for a corresponding attribute. The dataset is comprised of 30 Comma-Separated Values (CSV) and 15 Microsoft Excel (XLSX) files, for 45 files in total. The CSVs are more suitable for automated software processing and Excel files for data examination and manual processing.
The first group of five CSVs: NAPS_WordNet_Animals.csv, NAPS_WordNet_Faces.csv, NAPS_WordNet_Landscapes.csv, NAPS_WordNet_Objects.csv, and NAPS_WordNet_People.csv, contain the WordNet KGs associated with one of the NAPS picture categories: Animals, Faces, Landscapes, Objects, and People, respectively. Each row has mandatory attributes or columns Picture_ID, Category, and Description, which are identical to the attributes in the NAPS database. Attribute Picture_ID denotes unique identification of the NAPS picture (e.g., Animals_001_h, Faces_001_h, Landscapess_001_h, Objects_001_h, People_001_h), Category its NAPS category and Description the original single keyword generally describing picture content (e.g., “dead stork”, “children with a dog”, “concentration camp”, “burning car”, “sad woman”). In addition to these three mandatory attributes, each row in the presented dataset contains at least one column containing WordNet KGs describing the picture. These columns are labeled WordNet_1, WordNet_2, WordNet_3, WordNet_4, WordNet_5, WordNet_6 and WordNet_7. 
The first group of five CSV files contains only WordNet synset IDs without any other descriptive information. These files are the most suitable for machine processing and database indexing. 

The second group of five CSV files have suffix “_Complete”. Their file names are NAPS_WordNet_Animals_Complete.csv, NAPS_WordNet_Faces_Complete.csv, NAPS_WordNet_Landscapes_Complete.csv, NAPS_WordNet_Objects_Complete.csv, and NAPS_WordNet_People_Complete.csv. These CSV files have the same structure as the first group, and they also describe NAPS stimuli with WordNet KGs. But the files from this group contain the entire descriptive content of the WordNet synsets, including their ID, term type, enumerated synonyms, and other information.

The third group of five CSV files in the presented dataset contain ontology concepts describing NAPS stimuli using the formal vocabulary defined by SUMO. They are: NAPS_SUMO_Animals.csv, NAPS_SUMO_Faces.csv, NAPS_SUMO_Landscapes.csv, NAPS_SUMO_Objects.csv, and NAPS_SUMO_People.csv. Each row in these documents also describes the semantics of a single picture and has the same tabular structure as the WordNet CSV files. The first three columns are Picture_ID, Category, and Description, while the remaining columns are denoted SUMO_1, SUMO_2, SUMO_3, SUMO_4, SUMO_5, SUMO_6, and SUMO_7. 

The structure of the 15 Excel files (XLSX) is identical to those of the already described CSV files. Each row and column (i.e., attribute) in the Excel files corresponds to a row and column in the CSV files, respectively, ensuring consistency between the two file types. This enables seamless data comparison and processing, as well as consistent data usage and analysis.
The CSV files were created using Microsoft Excel, which uses the semicolon (“;”) character as the default column separator. To facilitate interoperability with all data processing tools, the dataset contains an additional 15 CSV files with comma (“,”) as the separator. These additional CSV files have the suffix “_CommaDelimited” in their file names.

Because of the tabular structure of the knowledge graph dataset, when exporting empty or null values in certain cells to a CSV format, this data is displayed as consecutive separators (e.g., “;;”, “;;;”, etc.). However, standard spreadsheets and text editors can handle such data.

**Data Utilization**

The presented KG dataset does not contain affective pictures. To utilize the dataset, it is necessary to request the NAPS repository for non-profit academic research purposes from the Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology, Laboratory of Brain Imaging (LOBI) at https://lobi.nencki.gov.pl/research/8/
